Nothing under the sun, no matter how fantastical its imaginings, is immune to the pressures of evolution.  Take science-fiction.  The Force, the mind meld—the entire field of psionics, for that matter—have the look of yellowing comic books, the taste of stale popcorn.  They would have long gone the way of the dodo, if not for the magic of capital.  Hollywood has proved itself more powerful than natural selection, building menageries in the form of franchises, gilding cages for endangered ideas.  The future has never been better preserved; the future has never looked older.

It wasn't always this way.  What historically loitered on the margins of myth and spiritualism, as _second sight_ and _sixth sense_, finally approached the field of science, in 1934, with the publication of J.B. Rhine's _Extra-Sensory Perception_.  Possession of this ability rarely came without costs.  Indeed, genre literature from the past eighty years vests the crippled, the deaf-blind, and the mutant with such psionic gifts.  Our "expensive" brains require considerable energy, and additional fuel must come from _somewhere…_

In its ideal form, telepathy can bypass the strictures of possessive individualism, rewiring citizens as a "group mind."  One community in Robert A. Heinlein's _Methuselah's Children_, for example, not only fails to distinguish individuals, but by their powers combined, can manipulate the genetics and ecology of their world.  Like the cyborg, psionics here functions as a progressive fiction: a search for communication outside of social norms.  Brains may be bigger or smaller, may belong to different genders, races, and creeds, but they all have a place in the noosphere.

Alas, ideality is rarely forthcoming, as psionics, like many technologies of the 20th Century, found immediate application in warcraft.  Spurred by reports of psychic training on the far side of the Iron Curtain, the CIA trained six people, beginning in 1972, to practice "remote viewing."  Early prototypes of drones, these psychic spies flew the extra-sensory airstreams, scanning for enemy bases, terrorists, and missing fighter-bombers.  Their success rate was better than what carrier pigeons would achieve, but not sufficient to keep the program intact.  It ended in 1995, conceding defeat to the ascendant, nigh-ubiquitous machine eye.

The Cold War was a renaissance of psionic sci-fi, before "espionage" became "counter-terrorism," when secrets leant themselves less to torture than telepathic extraction.  But the genre followed the trends.  We no longer need to imagine a group mind, because we've found one in cyberspace, nor wait for telepathy, as the electronic equivalent will do.  Some of us may find irony in the fact that disability—once seemingly essential to extra-sensory ability—now finds palliation from telepathy-like machines, wherein a thought can move an avatar arm, or reach brains in other countries as quick flashes of lights, to be decoded as digits, then letters.  It's at last time to revise that famous phrase: _she thinks, therefore I am_.

A moving arm, a flashing light may be as far as we get.  Miguel Nicolelis, who has famously predicted the coming of "neurosocial networking," still doubts that emotions, memories, and higher cognitive states will ever be subject to transmission.  Could it be that these qualities, so integral to our notion of self, are resilient to technological capture?  Is the soul digging trenches and fortifying ranks?  Or do we follow the science, which presents a depressingly individuated worldview, with no two brains alike, no two concepts sharing precisely the same neuronal region?  Achieving a group mind would require a feat of Borgesian proportions: seven billion, four hundred million dictionaries must be written, with the means to translate between them.  Before the printing press, we enslaved ourselves with transcription; soon, transcription may enslave the machines.
