Once, for practical reasons, the heating systems of art museums found lodging in their sofas.  The ottoman of the Louvre's Salon Carré—that infamous object from Henry James's _The American_, where the art of seduction was ever on display—contained a coal grate, for example, to keep bodies and passions inflamed.  In warmer seasons, when the libido can more or less heat itself, such seats became park benches: as much the resting stops for "aesthetic headaches" as for wearied amblers and would-be picnickers.

The modern museum, on the contrary, is decidedly less commodious.  Like art goers of yore, we do chance across the sublime artwork or two, stumbling (step by Stendhal step) back in disbelief.  Yet rarely are our swoons caught by plush upholstery.  A wooden bench might break our fall, or a daybed on holiday from its analyst.  More often than not, we hit the floor.

To Joel Sanders and Diana Fuss, shifts in institutional furniture privilege disembodied spectators, peculiar types of humans comprising two eyeballs, a brain, and the hot air to keep them buoyant.  Darlings of the philosophers, the Joneses of museums, they set the art world trends.  When MoMA opened its doors in 1939, for example, our ideal viewers no longer circumnavigated the galleries in search of moral education, but flowed from one room to the next, consuming the aesthetic goods on offer.

Set against this marvelous circulation, the museum seat appeared increasingly lost—a relic of the time when a body could suffer the exhaustion, an eye the inattention, a human the aesthetic labor that it uniquely relieved.  The first MoMA benches came with backs, but those would disappear in little time, for the bodies they sought to accommodate were, in fact, not bodies at all.

Nowadays, a few museums in the world carry new types of seats, as uncomfortable as MoMA's ascetic units, albeit for very different reasons.  Ergonomically designed for imagined future bodies, yet free for contemporary use, this furniture prescribes corporeal norms that no living human can fit.  And so they'll wait, like the museums themselves, until the right bodies come along to fill them…