However space agencies justify their enormous budgets, there is one conspicuously unnecessary expense: training astronauts for free fall.  Recruiters only need visit the fraternity rows of college campuses to find students already equipped to flip, twist, and defy the laws of gravity.

Zero-g is the postplanetary equivalent of a kegstand.  Astronauts aren't suspended upside-down, but the effect is much the same, with the body's fluids congregating in the chest and the head, puffing faces and pressurizing skulls.  Their legs aren't held by fraternity brothers, but are similarly useless without gravity.  Regular exercise is needed to maintain these biological handicaps, lest bone tissue and muscle mass degrade beyond belief.

Then there's the vestibular disorder, the squashing of eyeballs, the radiation ravaging the body's organs (the drinking analogy more or less holds up).  Continual swelling of the optic nerves has, rather appropriately, caused several astronauts to become farsighted!

In early imaginings of this outer space party, the poison of choice wasn't alcohol but drugs.  NASA commissioned two researchers in 1960, for example, to design a human best adapted to space—who lived in "space qua natura."  Their model being, quite astoundingly, could breath without lungs and space walk without suits.

Essential to their vision were exogenous devices: the fuel cells that replaced the lungs, the intravenous feeding tubes, the pressure pumps that injected a pharmacological cocktail to keep radiation and high blood pressure at bay.  When functioning effectively, this cybernetic system would be so integrated into the user as to operate "unconsciously."  To describe this system, the researchers invented the term "Cyborg."

A principal limitation of the researchers' model was psychology.  Sensory invariance and action deprivation had been known to induce "psychotic-like states"; in such instances, when the astronaut is not mentally fit to monitor himself, the researchers advised that drug infusions be triggered remotely from earth or by a fellow crew member.  Drugs, it seems, provided the immediate solution to most problems.

This research dreamt of a human freed of his biological limitations, yet thereby bound to countless apparatuses.  Thankfully, genetic engineering fixes many of these limitations on the assembly line.  Speaking at a 2014 Genetic and Society Symposium, George Church—the man who gives the field a friendly, grandfatherly face—claimed to have identified gene variants relevant to extra-terrestrial environments: LPR5 G171V for extra-strong bones, MSTN for lean muscles, GHR for lowered cancer risk.  Like the ultimate pre-hangover pill, Church's recipe ensures that we'll party from this solar system to wherever.