The great chain of being, that marvelous convenience that linked lowest to highest, the dialogues of Plato to the satires of Pope, began as a divine provocation.

Greeks and Trojans were standing on opposing margins of a blank page, ready to rush into the first chapter of history; Zeus, fearing the gods would lend their penmanship to the cause, threatened exile for offending parties.  To challenge his decision, to strap a gold chain to the heavens and drag him down, was tantamount to folly.  Zeus would not budge.  In fact, with a mere tug of the chain, he could send the rebels flying, pulling the carnal world in their wake.  A sinister chain became a triviality, man and god the baubles on a necklace draped around the peak of Olympus.

Zeus never acted on his threats, and his gauntlet grew forgetful, ever less a challenge and ever more a chain.  Nature, too, had forgotten: gradually, its kin found shelter in the links, growing accustomed to the altitude, the neighbors, the elliptical life.  As moss grows on a rock, so the natural world took to its host, until the two were impossible to distinguish.

Gods came and went, and still the chain kept hanging—no longer the plaything of a boastful god, but the instrument of a wise one.  Elizabethans seeking evidence of the Almighty's plan needed look no further than this object, where everything had a place.  The ugliest stone, the poisonous animal, the treacherous snake, the louse could not be considered _errors_ of creation, because they also got their link.  So too did the beggar, the deaf, and the dumb have their place in society, provided they stuck to it.

Everything—even angels—got a link, though complex hierarchies abounded.  Wild beasts were superior to domesticated ones for their resilience to human training.  Avian creatures bested the aquatic, as surely as air's domain sits above water's.  In the insect realm, aesthetics ranked the ladybug nearly as high as the bee, whose kingdom lent itself to allegory.  The chain's links ended well before Hell, lest the sinners attempted to climb.

Man held a special position in this chain.  Through will and wit, he stood one link above the beasts, yet given his carnal form, one shy of the angels.  By the eighteenth century, his position drew concern, for surely the lowest angel was immeasurably superior to man!  The thinkers found themselves in a quandary: conceding this point would break the chain, yet ignoring it would border on sin.  And so, in a prescient act, links were added—inhabitable planets were imagined, home to beings that bridged the gap.  Unlike the extraterrestrials of our age, those of the eighteenth century weren't foreign to humankind; they fit hand in glove with its logics.

Philosophies wane and sciences wax, and still the chain keeps hanging.  We're still searching for the missing links; someday, we may come to fill them.